1a. Software Acronym:
	
		x4i

1b. Short title:

		the EXFOR interface

2. Developer Name and Affiliation:

		David A. Brown (LLNL, Livermore CA, 94550)

3. Software Completion Date:

		10 March 2011
	
4. Brief Description:

		The x4i package is an interface to the EXFOR nuclear data library.  It simplifies retrieval 
		of EXFOR entries and can automatically parse them, allowing one to extract cross-section 
		(and other) data in a simple, plot-able format. x4i also understands and can parse the 
		entire reaction string, allowing one to build a strategy for processing the data.

5. Method of Solution:

		In x4i, we have encoded the relavent parts of the EXFOR grammer so that hte pyparsing
		module can accurately parse EXFOR data.  In particular, x4i parses the EXFOR reaction 
		strings allowing for the accurate classification of a dataset by target, projectile, 
		reaction products and observable.  X4i also parses the data tables and converts all 
		quantities to common units (e.g. MeV, barns, sterradians).
		
6. Computer(s) for which software is written:

		Apple, PC.

7. Operating System:

		MacOSX, Linux, Unix.  Not tested on Windows.

8. Programming Language(s) Used:

		Python (100%). 
		
9. Software Limitations: 

		None known.  Once unpacked, the entire EXFOR database takes up 539 Mb which is modest on 
		today's systems.  X4i creates no temporary files.

10. Unique Features of the Software:

		As x4i is written purely in Python, it is highly portable and light-weight enough that it 
		can easily be integrated into web-applications or data analysis packages.  
		
		X4i produces translations of EXFOR data that are human readable and can be plotted directly 
		with plotting packages such as xmgrace or gnuplot.  X4i's translations rely on the parsing
		module pyparsing, and not only reflect the underlying structure of the EXFOR data file, but
		also "crack" the reaction string allowing for accurate classification of EXFOR data and 
		development of a robust data search capability.  
		
11. Related and Auxiliary Software: 

		X4i uses the pyparsing package, written by Paul McGuire and released under teh GPL license.  
		Pyparsing source code is released along with x4i although we have not modifed the pyparsing 
		source code.

		X4i is a possible replacement fpr a code written by Dermont Cullen called X42C4.

12. Other Programming or Operating Information or Restrictions: 

		In the x4i/data directory, there are three kinds of files with non-standard file extensions.  
		The summary.tbl file is a sqllite3 database containing an index of the EXFOR library.  The 
		buggy.pickle file is a Python "pickle" file containing the errors encountered during the 
		building of the summary.tbl index.  The files ending in .x4 are the actual EXFOR data 
		files, given in EXFOR format.

13. Hardware Requirements:

		Roughly 1 Gb of free disk space to unpack the EXFOR database.

14. Time Requirements:

		Routine queries and retrievals of EXFOR data take much less than a second.  However, it 
		takes roughly 30 min. to rebuild the index on a desktop machine.  

15b. References; Additional background reference materials generally available:

		[1]  A. Koning, “WPEC Subgroup 30: Quality improvement of the EXFOR database Status report 
		June 2009,” NEA report number NEA/NSC/WPEC/DOC(2009)416 (2009).
		
		[2] O. Schwerer, “LEXFOR,” IAEA Nuclear Data Section report number IAEA-NDS-208, Vienna, 
		Austria (2008).
		
		[3] O. Schwerer, “EXFOR Exchange Formats Manual,” IAEA Nuclear Data Section report number 
		IAEA-NDS-207, Vienna, Austria (2008). 
		
		[4] O. Schwerer, “EXFOR/CINDA Dictionary Manual,” IAEA Nuclear Data Section report number 
		IAEA-NDS-213, Vienna, Austria (2008).
		
		[5] O. Schwerer, “EXFOR Basics Manual,” IAEA Nuclear Data Section report number 
		IAEA-NDS-206, Vienna, Austria (2008).
